---
title: "Getting Started"
date: 2023-03-01T18:56:57-07:00
draft: false
---

# Sherpa Grammar Reference

This is a document that explains the how one would use the Sherpa grammar syntax to create a grammar file. The first thing to understand is the hierarchy of a grammar

```
- PREAMBLE: one or more
- PRODUCTION: one or more
    - RULE: one or more
        - SYMBOL: one or more
        - AST Definition?
        - Syntax Definition?
```

## Grammar File

## Preamble

### Name
    Name of the parser

Preambles provide meta data that can extend the functionality of the parser generated by the grammar. There are 4 Preamble types:
- Export - Exports the given production as a parser entry point.
- Import - Import a specific grammar defined in another file.
- Name - Provide a friendly name for the parser.
- Ignore - Globally ignore specific tokens. 

## Production

Productions are the main components of a grammar. Productions contain rules which are matched to an input to determine if the input is a member of the set of strings a Grammar can produce. The top level production represents the head of a Syntax Tree, in which each node is either another production or a symbol. All symbols are leaf nodes in this tree.

Sherpa Provides tools to create two types of productions, 

### Importing productions

### Extending productions


The extend modifier allows rules to be inserted into production that is defined in another file.

### Group (Anonymous Production)

## Rule

A rule is a ordered set of symbols that must be matched by the parser to be valid

## Symbols

### Non Terminal

### Production

### Import Production

Import productions allow a rule to reference a production declared in a file outside of the file the rule itself is defined in. 

### Terminals

#### Class

#### String

#### Exclusive String

#### Terminal Non-Terminal

### Symbol Modifiers

## Rule Modifiers

### Syntax Definitions

### AScripT

### Recovery IR

### Custom Code